doc: build-from-sources documentation, closes CLD-6520 (#104)
gatling/gatling.io-doc: content/reference/execute/cloud/user/build-from-sources/index.md

2. Control Plane Image: Replace `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest` with `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest-builder`.

## Configuration

### Git authentication

#### SSH Keys

**Mount SSH Configuration**

- Provide an SSH config mount at /app/.ssh in the container.
- Ensure the mounted folder is owned by the Gatling user (UID 1001): `chown -R 1001 /app/.ssh`

**Update SSH Config:**

Edit `/app/.ssh/config` to specify your identity file. For example (GitHub):
```
Host github.com
IdentityFile /app/.ssh/id_gatling
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

**Set Key Permissions:**

Ensure `/app/.ssh/id_gatling` has permissions **644**:
- Owner: Read & Write
- Group: Read
- Others: Read

**Host Verification (Optional):**

If you set `StrictHostKeyChecking yes`, manually add hosts keys to `/app/.ssh/known_hosts`.

#### Git credentials (HTTPS)

When using HTTPS Git authentication (with passwords or tokens):

**Configure Git Credential Storage:**  
Run this command on your builder to enable secure credential storage:
```bash
git config --global credential.helper store

> ```

Reviewer: We should mention where the credentials file is located. Users are not going to connect inside the container to generate this config. They are going to generate this config from the outside and store it in a mounted volume. We need to explain how to do this.

**Store Approved Credentials:**
Use Git's credential approval mechanism (never hardcode credentials in URLs):
```bash
git credential approve <<EOF
url=https://github.com/your-org/your-repo.git
username=your_username
password=your_token_or_password
EOF
```

**Security Best Practices:**
- Always use personal access tokens instead of passwords
- Never include credentials in repository URLs within Gatling Enterprise

> - Review [Git credentials documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitcredentials) for advanced configurations

Reviewer: What's the difference between
* https://git-scm.com/docs/gitcredentials
* https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential

Author: gitcredentials is the config format (store in our case)
git-credential is the CLI command that user will use to approve creds

---
title: Build From Sources
seotitle: Gatling Enterprise Cloud Build From Sources
description: Guides you through deploying your Gatling project on Gatling Enterprise Cloud.
date: 2024-03-10T14:29:04+00:00
---

# Introduction

> Run simulations by cloning directly from your Git repositories using a private builder component.

Reviewer 2: plugging -> connecting?

## Pre-requisites

1. Private Repository Required: Build from Sources requires a configured [Private Repository]({{< ref "reference/install/cloud/private-packages" >}}) to store build artifacts.
2. Private Locations Required: Build from Sources is only compatible with [Private Locations]({{< ref "reference/install/cloud/private-locations/introduction" >}}). Ensure these are configured first.

> 3. Control Plane Image: Use `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest` instead of `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest-builder`.

Reviewer 3: Close !
```suggestion
3. Control Plane Image: Use `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest-builder` instead of `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest`.
```

## Configuration

### Git authentication

> #### SSH Keys

Reviewer: Cloning over SSH using an SSH key

**Mount SSH Configuration**

> - Provide an SSH config mount at /app/.ssh in the container.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Provide an SSH configuration mounted to /app/.ssh folder in the container.
```

- Ensure the mounted folder is owned by the Gatling user (UID 1001): `chown -R 1001 /app/.ssh`

**Update SSH Config:**

Edit `/app/.ssh/config` to specify your identity file. For example (GitHub):
```
Host github.com
IdentityFile /app/.ssh/id_gatling
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

**Set Key Permissions:**

Ensure `/app/.ssh/id_gatling` has permissions **644**:
- Owner: Read & Write
- Group: Read
- Others: Read

**Host Verification (Optional):**

If you set `StrictHostKeyChecking yes`, manually add hosts keys to `/app/.ssh/known_hosts`.

> #### Git credentials (HTTPS)

Reviewer: Cloning over HTTPS using git credentials

When using HTTPS Git authentication (with passwords or tokens):

**Configure Git Credential Storage:**  
Run this command on your builder to enable secure credential storage:
```bash
git config --global credential.helper store
```

> The credentials file (`~/.git-credentials` on the host) is mounted to `/app/.git-credentials` within the container.

Reviewer: `mounted on` or `mounted to` ?

Author: https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/volumes/ mounted into 🧠

Author: mounted to a container also used

```
Host github.com
IdentityFile /app/.ssh/id_gatling
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

**Set Key Permissions:**

Ensure `/app/.ssh/id_gatling` has permissions **644**:
- Owner: Read & Write
- Group: Read
- Others: Read

**Host Verification (Optional):**

If you set `StrictHostKeyChecking yes`, manually add hosts keys to `/app/.ssh/known_hosts`.

#### Cloning over HTTPS using git credentials

When using HTTPS Git authentication (with passwords or tokens):

**Configure Git Credential Storage:**  
Run this command on your builder to enable secure credential storage:
```bash
git config --global credential.helper store
```

The credentials file (`~/.git-credentials` on the host) is mounted at `/app/.git-credentials` into the container.

**Store Approved Credentials:**
Use Git's credential approval mechanism (never hardcode credentials in URLs):
```bash
git credential approve <<EOF
url=https://github.com/your-org/your-repo.git
username=your_username
password=your_token_or_password
EOF
```

**Security Best Practices:**
- Always use personal access tokens instead of passwords
- Never include credentials in repository URLs within Gatling Enterprise

> - Review [Git credentials documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitcredentials) for advanced configurations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Review [Git credentials documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitcredentials) for advanced configurations.
```

### Build cache

To ensure build tool caches persist across different builder upgrades, mount a volume for the following directories:
- Maven cache: `/app/.m2`
- Gradle cache: `/app/.gradle`
- SBT cache: `/app/.sbt`
- NPM cache: `/app/.npm`

## Usage

### Git repositories

Navigate to Sources → Git repositories

Create a new repository by providing:
- Name
- Team (note: simulations built from this repository will inherit this team)
- URL (e.g: `git@github.com:gatling/gatling.git`)

{{< img src="build-from-sources-create-repository.png" alt="Create Git Repository" >}}

From repository actions, you can create new simulations.

> ### Creating Simulations from Source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Creating simulations from a source
```

> Go to Simulations → Create Simulation → Select Build from sources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to Simulations → Create Simulation → Select **Build from sources**
```

Reviewer 2: UI elements in bold

{{< img src="build-from-sources-simulation-create.png" alt="Create Simulation from Git Repository" >}}

**Configure:**
- Source repository
- Branch (defaults to repository default branch)
- Working directory (defaults to repository root)
- Build tool of your project
- Simulation class
  - JVM projects: Enter the fully qualified name (exemple: `io.gatling.DemoSimulation`)

>   - Javascript projects: Use the simulation name (exemple: `demoSimulation` for `demoSimulation.gatling.js`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - JavaScript projects: Use the simulation name (example: `demoSimulation` for `demoSimulation.gatling.js`)
```

> - Configure private locations and others [simulation properties]({{< ref "reference/execute/cloud/user/simulations" >}})

Reviewer 2: what does "others" refer to?

Author: like the rest of the simulation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Configure private locations and other [simulation properties]({{< ref "reference/execute/cloud/user/simulations" >}})
```

---
title: Build From Sources
seotitle: Gatling Enterprise Cloud Build From Sources
description: Guides you through deploying your Gatling project on Gatling Enterprise Cloud.
date: 2024-03-10T14:29:04+00:00
---

# Introduction

Run simulations by cloning directly from your Git repositories using a private builder component.

## Pre-requisites

1. Private Locations Required: Build from Sources is only compatible with [Private Locations]({{< ref "reference/install/cloud/private-locations/introduction" >}}). Ensure these are configured first.

> 2. Control Plane Image: Replace `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest` with `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest-builder`.

Reviewer 4: Where?

## Configuration

### Git credentials

> To allow the builder to clone your repositories, you must configure SSH keys as SSH is supported for secured fetch.

Reviewer: Blocking. We were supposed to support clone over HTTPS with tokens in this release. Strong requirement from Intuit.

Author: added

**Mount SSH Configuration**

- Provide an SSH config mount at /app/.ssh in the container.
- Ensure the mounted folder is owned by the Gatling user (UID 1001): `chown -R 1001 /app/.ssh`

**Update SSH Config:**

Edit `/app/.ssh/config` to specify your identity file. For example (GitHub):
```
Host github.com
IdentityFile /app/.ssh/id_gatling
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

**Set Key Permissions:**

Ensure `/app/.ssh/id_gatling` has permissions **644**:
- Owner: Read & Write
- Group: Read
- Others: Read

**Host Verification (Optional):**

If you set `StrictHostKeyChecking yes`, manually add hosts keys to `/app/.ssh/known_hosts`.

### Build cache

To ensure build tool caches persist across different builder upgrades, mount a volume for the following directories:
- Maven cache: `/app/.m2`
- Gradle cache: `/app/.gradle`
- SBT cache: `/app/.sbt`

> - NPM cache: `/app/.npm`

Reviewer 4: Is it necessary, or optional?

Author: Optional

## Usage

### Git repositories

Navigate to Sources → Git repositories

Create a new repository by providing:
- Name

> - Team (note: simulations inherit this team)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Team (note: simulations built from this repository will inherit this team)
```

- SSH URL (e.g: `git@github.com:gatling/gatling.git`)

{{< img src="build-from-sources-create-repository.png" alt="Create Git Repository" >}}

From repository actions, you can create new simulations.

### Creating Simulations from Source

Go to Simulations → Create Simulation → Select Build from sources

{{< img src="build-from-sources-simulation-create.png" alt="Create Simulation from Git Repository" >}}

**Configure:**
- Source repository
- Branch (defaults to repository's default branch)

> - Working directory

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Working directory (defaults to repository's root)
```

---
title: Build From Sources
seotitle: Gatling Enterprise Cloud Build From Sources
description: Guides you through deploying your Gatling project on Gatling Enterprise Cloud.
date: 2024-03-10T14:29:04+00:00
---

# Introduction

Run simulations by cloning directly from your Git repositories using a private builder component.

## Pre-requisites

> 1. Private Locations Required: Build from Sources is only compatible with [Private Locations]({{< ref "reference/install/cloud/private-locations/introduction" >}}). Ensure these are configured first.

Author: It's not a pre requisite but part of the feature usage

2. Control Plane Image: Replace `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest` with `gatlingcorp/control-plane:latest-builder`.

## Configuration

### Git credentials

To allow the builder to clone your repositories, you must configure SSH keys. Only SSH is supported.
Configuration Steps

**Mount SSH Configuration**

- Provide an SSH config mount at /app/.ssh in the container.
- Ensure the mounted folder is owned by the Gatling user (UID 1001): `chown -R 1001 /app/.ssh`

**Update SSH Config:**

Edit `/app/.ssh/config` to specify your identity file. For example (GitHub):
```
Host github.com
IdentityFile /app/.ssh/id_gatling
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

**Set Key Permissions:**

Ensure `/app/.ssh/id_gatling` has permissions **644**:
- Owner: Read & Write
- Group: Read
- Others: Read

> You can use

Reviewer 3: A bit weird
